API.md, before:

# MCP Tools API Reference

This document describes all MCP tools exposed by the KYC Document Extractor server.

## Base Information

- **Server Name**: `mx-kyc-mcp`
- **Version**: `1.0.0`
- **Protocol**: Model Context Protocol (MCP)
- **Transport**: stdio

## Tools

> **Response Envelope**  
> All tools respond with a uniform JSON structure:
> - Success: `{ "ok": true, "data": { ... } }`
> - Error: `{ "ok": false, "error_code": "...", "message": "..." }`

Example client-side pattern:

```typescript
const payload = JSON.parse(result.content[0].text);
if (!payload.ok) {
  throw new Error(payload.message);
}
const data = payload.data;
```

### 1. `list_supported_doc_types`

Lists all supported document types and their descriptions.

#### Parameters

None

#### Response

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "data": [
    {
      "type": "acta",
      "description": "Acta Constitutiva (Incorporation Deed) - Extracts Identity, Shareholders, Powers"
    },
    {
      "type": "sat_constancia",
      "description": "SAT Constancia de Situación Fiscal - Extracts Tax Profile"
    },
    {
      "type": "fm2",
      "description": "FM2 / Residente Card - Extracts Immigration Profile"
    },
    {
      "type": "telmex",
      "description": "Telmex Bill - Extracts Proof of Address"
    },
    {
      "type": "cfe",
      "description": "CFE Electricity Bill - Extracts Proof of Address"
    },
    {
      "type": "bank_statement",
      "description": "Bank Statement - Extracts Profile & Transactions"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Example Usage

```typescript
const result = await mcpClient.callTool("list_supported_doc_types", {});
console.log(result.content[0].text); // JSON array of document types
```

---

### 2. `import_kyc_document`

Imports a KYC document, extracts structured data, and stores it in a customer run.

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| `customer_id` | string | Yes | Unique identifier for the customer (e.g., "pfds", "customer-123") |
| `doc_type` | enum | Yes | Document type: `"acta"`, `"sat_constancia"`, `"fm2"`, `"telmex"`, `"cfe"`, `"bank_statement"` |
| `file_url` | string | Yes | URL or file path to the document (PDF or image) |
| `source_name` | string | No | Human-readable name for the document (e.g., "CFE_AGOSTO.pdf") |

#### Response (Success)

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "data": {
    "customer_id": "pfds",
    "run_id": "64ebd4d5-b2dc-408f-92ab-38808ec7de01",
    "doc_id": "fea5e097-bf7a-4de9-a928-d6681938feb2",
    "doc_type": "sat_constancia",
    "supplemental_doc_ids": [],
    "status": "imported"
  }
}
```

Additional fields:
- `supplemental_doc_ids`: For documents that spawn extra records (e.g., bank statement transactions), this array lists the newly created document IDs.

#### Response (Error)

```json
{
  "ok": false,
  "error_code": "EXTRACTION_FAILED",
  "message": "Invalid document format"
}
```

#### Example Usage

```typescript
// Import SAT Constancia
const result = await mcpClient.callTool("import_kyc_document", {
  customer_id: "customer-123",
  doc_type: "sat_constancia",
  file_url: "https://example.com/constancia.pdf",
  source_name: "SAT_Constancia_2024.pdf"
});

// Import Acta Constitutiva
await mcpClient.callTool("import_kyc_document", {
  customer_id: "customer-123",
  doc_type: "acta",
  file_url: "/path/to/acta.pdf"
});

// Import bank statement
await mcpClient.callTool("import_kyc_document", {
  customer_id: "customer-123",
  doc_type: "bank_statement",
  file_url: "https://bank.com/statement.pdf"
});
```

#### Notes

- Creates a new run if one doesn't exist for the customer
- Appends documents to existing runs
- Extraction uses GPT-5.1 Vision API
- Documents are validated against Zod schemas
- Failed extractions still create document entries (with error info)

---

### 3. `build_kyc_profile`

Aggregates all imported documents for a customer into a unified KYC profile.

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| `customer_id` | string | Yes | Customer identifier |

#### Response (Success)

Returns the complete `KycProfile` object:

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "data": {
    "customerId": "customer-123",
    "companyIdentity": {
      "razon_social": "Example Corp",
      "rfc": "EXC123456789",
      "incorporation_date": "2020-01-15",
      "founding_address": { ... },
      "legal_representatives": [ ... ],
      "shareholders": [ ... ],
      ...
    },
    "companyTaxProfile": {
      "rfc": "EXC123456789",
      "razon_social": "Example Corp",
      "tax_regime": "General",
      "fiscal_address": { ... },
      "economic_activities": [ ... ],
      ...
    },
    "representativeIdentity": { ... },
    "currentFiscalAddress": { ... },
    "currentOperationalAddress": { ... },
    "foundingAddress": { ... },
    "addressEvidence": [ ... ],
    "bankAccounts": [ ... ],
    "historical_addresses": [ ... ],
    "lastUpdatedAt": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z"
  }
}
```

#### Response (Error)

```json
{
  "ok": false,
  "error_code": "NO_RUN_FOR_CUSTOMER",
  "message": "No run found for customer customer-123"
}
```

#### Example Usage

```typescript
const result = await mcpClient.callTool("build_kyc_profile", {
  customer_id: "customer-123"
});

const profile = JSON.parse(result.content[0].text);
console.log(profile.companyIdentity?.razon_social);
console.log(profile.currentFiscalAddress);
```

#### Notes

- Automatically resolves addresses using precedence rules
- Preserves all historical addresses
- Fiscal address always from SAT Constancia
- Operational address: Bank > CFE/Telmex > SAT (fallback)
- Profile is saved to the run after building

---

### 4. `validate_kyc_profile`

Validates a KYC profile and generates validation results with scores and flags.

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| `customer_id` | string | Yes | Customer identifier |

#### Response (Success)

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "data": {
    "customerId": "customer-123",
    "score": 0.85,
    "flags": [
      {
        "code": "ADDRESS_MISMATCH",
        "level": "warning",
        "message": "Fiscal address differs from operational address"
      },
      {
        "code": "LOW_DOC_COVERAGE",
        "level": "info",
        "message": "Missing bank statement"
      }
    ],
    "generatedAt": "2024-01-15T10:35:00Z"
  }
}
```

#### Flag Codes

- `ADDRESS_MISMATCH`: Addresses from different sources don't match
- `REP_ID_MISMATCH`: Representative identity inconsistencies
- `LOW_DOC_COVERAGE`: Missing recommended documents
- `OTHER`: Generic validation issue

#### Flag Levels

- `info`: Informational, doesn't affect score significantly
- `warning`: Should be reviewed, minor score impact
- `critical`: Blocks approval, major score impact

#### Response (Error)

```json
{
  "ok": false,
  "error_code": "NO_RUN_FOR_CUSTOMER",
  "message": "No run found for customer customer-123"
}
```

#### Example Usage

```typescript
const result = await mcpClient.callTool("validate_kyc_profile", {
  customer_id: "customer-123"
});

const validation = JSON.parse(result.content[0].text);
console.log(`Score: ${validation.score}`);
validation.flags.forEach(flag => {
  console.log(`[${flag.level}] ${flag.message}`);
});
```

#### Notes

- Auto-builds profile if missing
- Score ranges from 0.0 to 1.0
- Validation results are saved to the run
- Critical flags indicate blocking issues

---

### 5. `get_kyc_report`

Generates a comprehensive KYC report combining profile and validation data.

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| `customer_id` | string | Yes | Customer identifier |

#### Response (Success)

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "data": {
    "customerId": "customer-123",
    "generatedAt": "2024-01-15T10:40:00Z",
    "profile": {
      "companyIdentity": { ... },
      "companyTaxProfile": { ... },
      "currentFiscalAddress": { ... },
      "currentOperationalAddress": { ... },
      ...
    },
    "validation": {
      "score": 0.85,
      "flags": [ ... ]
    },
    "summary": {
      "companyName": "Example Corp",
      "rfc": "EXC123456789",
      "hasCompleteProfile": true,
      "documentCount": 3,
      "addressesFound": 2
    },
    "recommendations": [
      "Consider adding bank statement for operational address verification"
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Response (Error)

```json
{
  "ok": false,
  "error_code": "NO_RUN_FOR_CUSTOMER",
  "message": "No run found for customer customer-123"
}
```

#### Error Codes

- `NO_RUN_FOR_CUSTOMER`: No run exists for the customer
- `FAILED_TO_GENERATE_PROFILE_OR_VALIDATION`: Profile/validation generation failed

#### Example Usage

```typescript
const result = await mcpClient.callTool("get_kyc_report", {
  customer_id: "customer-123"
});

const report = JSON.parse(result.content[0].text);
if (report.ok) {
  console.log(`Company: ${report.summary.companyName}`);
  console.log(`Score: ${report.validation.score}`);
  console.log(`Recommendations:`, report.recommendations);
} else {
  console.error(`Error: ${report.error_code}`);
}
```

#### Notes

- Auto-builds profile and validation if missing
- Combines all available data into single report
- Includes actionable recommendations
- Report is not persisted (regenerated on each call)

---

## Workflow Examples

### Complete KYC Workflow

```typescript
// 1. Import all documents
await import_kyc_document({
  customer_id: "customer-123",
  doc_type: "sat_constancia",
  file_url: "constancia.pdf"
});

await import_kyc_document({
  customer_id: "customer-123",
  doc_type: "acta",
  file_url: "acta.pdf"
});

await import_kyc_document({
  customer_id: "customer-123",
  doc_type: "cfe",
  file_url: "cfe_bill.pdf"
});

// 2. Build profile
await build_kyc_profile({ customer_id: "customer-123" });

// 3. Validate
await validate_kyc_profile({ customer_id: "customer-123" });

// 4. Get final report
const report = await get_kyc_report({ customer_id: "customer-123" });
```

### Incremental Document Addition

```typescript
// Add documents over time
await import_kyc_document({ ... }); // Document 1
await import_kyc_document({ ... }); // Document 2

// Rebuild profile with new documents
await build_kyc_profile({ customer_id: "customer-123" });

// Re-validate
await validate_kyc_profile({ customer_id: "customer-123" });
```

## Error Handling

All tools return errors in a consistent format:

```json
{
  "ok": false,
  "error_code": "EXTRACTION_FAILED",
  "message": "Error message here"
}
```

Common error scenarios / codes:
- `INVALID_DOC_TYPE`
- `EXTRACTION_FAILED`
- `NO_RUN_FOR_CUSTOMER`
- `PROFILE_BUILD_FAILED`
- `FAILED_TO_GENERATE_PROFILE_OR_VALIDATION`
- `INVALID_FILE_URL`
- `SCHEMA_VALIDATION_FAILED`

## Rate Limiting

Currently no rate limiting is implemented. Consider:
- Limiting concurrent extractions
- Caching extracted documents
- Implementing request queuing

## Best Practices

1. **Import all documents first** before building profile
2. **Use consistent customer_id** across all operations
3. **Handle errors gracefully** - check `isError` flag
4. **Rebuild profile** after adding new documents
5. **Re-validate** after profile changes
6. **Store run_id** for tracking document history

Commit message:

Update API documentation and refactor KYC extraction logic for MexKYC
Revise API documentation to reflect the new MexKYC branding and server details. Update the package.json to change the project name and description, aligning with the new branding. Enhance KYC extraction logic by introducing support for passport identity verification alongside existing immigration documents (FM2/INE). Refactor KYC profile builder to accommodate the new passport identity type, ensuring accurate data extraction and validation. Update tests to include passport identity scenarios, improving overall coverage and reliability.

API.md, after:

# MexKYC API Reference

This document describes all MCP tools exposed by the MexKYC server.

## Base Information

- **Server Name**: `mexkyc-mcp`
- **Version**: `1.0.0`
- **Protocol**: Model Context Protocol (MCP)
- **Transport**: stdio or SSE (HTTP)
- **Website**: [https://mexkyc.com](https://mexkyc.com)

## Tools

> **Response Envelope**  
> All tools respond with a uniform JSON structure:
> - Success: `{ "ok": true, "data": { ... } }`
> - Error: `{ "ok": false, "error_code": "...", "message": "..." }`

Example client-side pattern:

```typescript
const payload = JSON.parse(result.content[0].text);
if (!payload.ok) {
  throw new Error(payload.message);
}
const data = payload.data;
```

### 1. `list_supported_doc_types`

Lists all supported document types and their descriptions.

#### Parameters

None

#### Response

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "data": [
    {
      "type": "acta",
      "description": "Acta Constitutiva (Incorporation Deed) - Extracts Identity, Shareholders, Powers"
    },
    {
      "type": "sat_constancia",
      "description": "SAT Constancia de Situación Fiscal - Extracts Tax Profile"
    },
    {
      "type": "fm2",
      "description": "FM2 / Residente Card - Extracts Immigration Profile"
    },
    {
      "type": "telmex",
      "description": "Telmex Bill - Extracts Proof of Address"
    },
    {
      "type": "cfe",
      "description": "CFE Electricity Bill - Extracts Proof of Address"
    },
    {
      "type": "bank_statement",
      "description": "Bank Statement - Extracts Profile & Transactions"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Example Usage

```typescript
const result = await mcpClient.callTool("list_supported_doc_types", {});
console.log(result.content[0].text); // JSON array of document types
```

---

### 2. `import_kyc_document`

Imports a KYC document, extracts structured data, and stores it in a customer run.

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| `customer_id` | string | Yes | Unique identifier for the customer (e.g., "pfds", "customer-123") |
| `doc_type` | enum | Yes | Document type: `"acta"`, `"sat_constancia"`, `"fm2"`, `"telmex"`, `"cfe"`, `"bank_statement"` |
| `file_url` | string | Yes | URL or file path to the document (PDF or image) |
| `source_name` | string | No | Human-readable name for the document (e.g., "CFE_AGOSTO.pdf") |

#### Response (Success)

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "data": {
    "customer_id": "pfds",
    "run_id": "64ebd4d5-b2dc-408f-92ab-38808ec7de01",
    "doc_id": "fea5e097-bf7a-4de9-a928-d6681938feb2",
    "doc_type": "sat_constancia",
    "supplemental_doc_ids": [],
    "status": "imported"
  }
}
```

Additional fields:
- `supplemental_doc_ids`: For documents that spawn extra records (e.g., bank statement transactions), this array lists the newly created document IDs.

#### Response (Error)

```json
{
  "ok": false,
  "error_code": "EXTRACTION_FAILED",
  "message": "Invalid document format"
}
```

#### Example Usage

```typescript
// Import SAT Constancia
const result = await mcpClient.callTool("import_kyc_document", {
  customer_id: "customer-123",
  doc_type: "sat_constancia",
  file_url: "https://example.com/constancia.pdf",
  source_name: "SAT_Constancia_2024.pdf"
});

// Import Acta Constitutiva
await mcpClient.callTool("import_kyc_document", {
  customer_id: "customer-123",
  doc_type: "acta",
  file_url: "/path/to/acta.pdf"
});

// Import bank statement
await mcpClient.callTool("import_kyc_document", {
  customer_id: "customer-123",
  doc_type: "bank_statement",
  file_url: "https://bank.com/statement.pdf"
});
```

#### Notes

- Creates a new run if one doesn't exist for the customer
- Appends documents to existing runs
- Extraction uses GPT-5.1 Vision API
- Documents are validated against Zod schemas
- Failed extractions still create document entries (with error info)

---

### 3. `build_kyc_profile`

Aggregates all imported documents for a customer into a unified KYC profile.

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| `customer_id` | string | Yes | Customer identifier |

#### Response (Success)

Returns the complete `KycProfile` object:

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "data": {
    "customerId": "customer-123",
    "companyIdentity": {
      "razon_social": "Example Corp",
      "rfc": "EXC123456789",
      "incorporation_date": "2020-01-15",
      "founding_address": { ... },
      "legal_representatives": [ ... ],
      "shareholders": [ ... ],
      ...
    },
    "companyTaxProfile": {
      "rfc": "EXC123456789",
      "razon_social": "Example Corp",
      "tax_regime": "General",
      "fiscal_address": { ... },
      "economic_activities": [ ... ],
      ...
    },
    "representativeIdentity": { ... },
    "currentFiscalAddress": { ... },
    "currentOperationalAddress": { ... },
    "foundingAddress": { ... },
    "addressEvidence": [ ... ],
    "bankAccounts": [ ... ],
    "historical_addresses": [ ... ],
    "lastUpdatedAt": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z"
  }
}
```

#### Response (Error)

```json
{
  "ok": false,
  "error_code": "NO_RUN_FOR_CUSTOMER",
  "message": "No run found for customer customer-123"
}
```

#### Example Usage

```typescript
const result = await mcpClient.callTool("build_kyc_profile", {
  customer_id: "customer-123"
});

const profile = JSON.parse(result.content[0].text);
console.log(profile.companyIdentity?.razon_social);
console.log(profile.currentFiscalAddress);
```

#### Notes

- Automatically resolves addresses using precedence rules
- Preserves all historical addresses
- Fiscal address always from SAT Constancia
- Operational address: Bank > CFE/Telmex > SAT (fallback)
- Profile is saved to the run after building

---

### 4. `validate_kyc_profile`

Validates a KYC profile and generates validation results with scores and flags.

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| `customer_id` | string | Yes | Customer identifier |

#### Response (Success)

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "data": {
    "customerId": "customer-123",
    "score": 0.85,
    "flags": [
      {
        "code": "ADDRESS_MISMATCH",
        "level": "warning",
        "message": "Fiscal address differs from operational address"
      },
      {
        "code": "LOW_DOC_COVERAGE",
        "level": "info",
        "message": "Missing bank statement"
      }
    ],
    "generatedAt": "2024-01-15T10:35:00Z"
  }
}
```

#### Flag Codes

- `ADDRESS_MISMATCH`: Addresses from different sources don't match
- `REP_ID_MISMATCH`: Representative identity inconsistencies
- `LOW_DOC_COVERAGE`: Missing recommended documents
- `OTHER`: Generic validation issue

#### Flag Levels

- `info`: Informational, doesn't affect score significantly
- `warning`: Should be reviewed, minor score impact
- `critical`: Blocks approval, major score impact

#### Response (Error)

```json
{
  "ok": false,
  "error_code": "NO_RUN_FOR_CUSTOMER",
  "message": "No run found for customer customer-123"
}
```

#### Example Usage

```typescript
const result = await mcpClient.callTool("validate_kyc_profile", {
  customer_id: "customer-123"
});

const validation = JSON.parse(result.content[0].text);
console.log(`Score: ${validation.score}`);
validation.flags.forEach(flag => {
  console.log(`[${flag.level}] ${flag.message}`);
});
```

#### Notes

- Auto-builds profile if missing
- Score ranges from 0.0 to 1.0
- Validation results are saved to the run
- Critical flags indicate blocking issues

---

### 5. `get_kyc_report`

Generates a comprehensive KYC report combining profile and validation data.

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|
| `customer_id` | string | Yes | Customer identifier |

#### Response (Success)

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "data": {
    "customerId": "customer-123",
    "generatedAt": "2024-01-15T10:40:00Z",
    "profile": {
      "companyIdentity": { ... },
      "companyTaxProfile": { ... },
      "currentFiscalAddress": { ... },
      "currentOperationalAddress": { ... },
      ...
    },
    "validation": {
      "score": 0.85,
      "flags": [ ... ]
    },
    "summary": {
      "companyName": "Example Corp",
      "rfc": "EXC123456789",
      "hasCompleteProfile": true,
      "documentCount": 3,
      "addressesFound": 2
    },
    "recommendations": [
      "Consider adding bank statement for operational address verification"
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Response (Error)

```json
{
  "ok": false,
  "error_code": "NO_RUN_FOR_CUSTOMER",
  "message": "No run found for customer customer-123"
}
```

#### Error Codes

- `NO_RUN_FOR_CUSTOMER`: No run exists for the customer
- `FAILED_TO_GENERATE_PROFILE_OR_VALIDATION`: Profile/validation generation failed

#### Example Usage

```typescript
const result = await mcpClient.callTool("get_kyc_report", {
  customer_id: "customer-123"
});

const report = JSON.parse(result.content[0].text);
if (report.ok) {
  console.log(`Company: ${report.summary.companyName}`);
  console.log(`Score: ${report.validation.score}`);
  console.log(`Recommendations:`, report.recommendations);
} else {
  console.error(`Error: ${report.error_code}`);
}
```

#### Notes

- Auto-builds profile and validation if missing
- Combines all available data into single report
- Includes actionable recommendations
- Report is not persisted (regenerated on each call)

---

## Workflow Examples

### Complete KYC Workflow

```typescript
// 1. Import all documents
await import_kyc_document({
  customer_id: "customer-123",
  doc_type: "sat_constancia",
  file_url: "constancia.pdf"
});

await import_kyc_document({
  customer_id: "customer-123",
  doc_type: "acta",
  file_url: "acta.pdf"
});

await import_kyc_document({
  customer_id: "customer-123",
  doc_type: "cfe",
  file_url: "cfe_bill.pdf"
});

// 2. Build profile
await build_kyc_profile({ customer_id: "customer-123" });

// 3. Validate
await validate_kyc_profile({ customer_id: "customer-123" });

// 4. Get final report
const report = await get_kyc_report({ customer_id: "customer-123" });
```

### Incremental Document Addition

```typescript
// Add documents over time
await import_kyc_document({ ... }); // Document 1
await import_kyc_document({ ... }); // Document 2

// Rebuild profile with new documents
await build_kyc_profile({ customer_id: "customer-123" });

// Re-validate
await validate_kyc_profile({ customer_id: "customer-123" });
```

## Error Handling

All tools return errors in a consistent format:

```json
{
  "ok": false,
  "error_code": "EXTRACTION_FAILED",
  "message": "Error message here"
}
```

Common error scenarios / codes:
- `INVALID_DOC_TYPE`
- `EXTRACTION_FAILED`
- `NO_RUN_FOR_CUSTOMER`
- `PROFILE_BUILD_FAILED`
- `FAILED_TO_GENERATE_PROFILE_OR_VALIDATION`
- `INVALID_FILE_URL`
- `SCHEMA_VALIDATION_FAILED`

## Rate Limiting

Currently no rate limiting is implemented. Consider:
- Limiting concurrent extractions
- Caching extracted documents
- Implementing request queuing

## Best Practices

1. **Import all documents first** before building profile
2. **Use consistent customer_id** across all operations
3. **Handle errors gracefully** - check `isError` flag
4. **Rebuild profile** after adding new documents
5. **Re-validate** after profile changes
6. **Store run_id** for tracking document history
